56
All times are UTC©  Crown copyright 2026
 AAIB Bulletin: 4/2026 Experimental Drone V ariant 4J  AAIB-31425
Accident
Aircraft Type and Registration: Experimental Drone Variant 4J 
No & Type of Engines:
 4 electric motors
Y
ear of Manufacture:
 2025 (Serial no: PT
-1046)
Date & Time (UTC):
 1
1 December 2025 at 1500 hrs
Location:
 Salisbury Plain 
Training Area, Wiltshire
Type of Flight:
 Commercial Operations (UAS) 
Persons on Board:
 Crew - N/A Passengers - N/A
Injuries:
 Crew - N/A Passengers - N/A
Nature of Damage:
 UA
 destroyed beyond economic repair
Commander’s Licence:
 CAA
 Level 1 and 3 Category A
Commander’s Age:
 32 years
Commander
’s Flying Experience:
 60 hours (of which 7 were on type)
Last 90 days - 7 hours
Last 28 days - 2 hours
Information Source:
 Aircraft 
Accident Report Form submitted by the 
pilot
Synopsis
During 
a verification and validation test flight of a fixed wing UA command and control was 
lost.  The flight was terminated when it was confirmed the UA was over a safe area.  The 
UA descended to the ground and the wreckage recovered.  A fault was found within its 
navigation module which caused it to breach the geofenced area in which it was flying.  The 
operator has taken safety actions which introduce a fall-back logic within the system which 
can switch to other navigational sources and has modified the user interface to provide a 
clear alert to the remote pilot in the event of a positioning data anomaly.
History of the flight
A UA was conducting a verification and validation test flight within an authorised test 
area.  Shortly after launch the ground control station experienced a loss of command and 
control which led to the UA disregarding its preset geofence.  Attempts to recover accurate 
navigational control were ineffective and, when it was confirmed the UA had not strayed 
over a populated area, the ground control operator initiated an immediate flight termination.  
The UA entered a vertical descent and struck the ground.
Technical cause
The operator recovered the UA wreckage and conducted an investigation to determine 
the cause of the loss of control.  It found that the ‘in-house’ navigation module undergoing 
57
All times are UTC©  Crown copyright 2026
 AAIB Bulletin: 4/2026 Experimental Drone Variant 4J AAIB-31425
the test was faulty.  Whether it was a hardware or software fault could not be positively 
determined.  This module manages both visual and the fall-back logic to alternative systems 
such as GPS.  The fault prevented the module switching to alternative navigational sources 
and led the UA to become ‘trapped’ in a non-recoverable navigation state resulting in its 
breach of the geofence.
Operator’s analysis
The operator considered that this event highlighted the need for clearer flight termination 
procedures to be briefed pre-flight and for robust Emergency Response Plan training for the 
remote pilots.  The operator’s Safety Review Board has mandated a staged return to flight 
to mitiga